#Fuzz Testing

Fuzz testing is a testing technique in which invalid or random data is provided as input to the software system to check any failures in the system. This system testing technique is used in order to check if there are any security problems in the software or the hardware component of the system. Fuzz testing is a random testing technique which can be used to test both the software component as well as the hardware component of a computer system. Fuzz testing can be implemented as a white box , gray box or as a black box testing technique, although it is more often used as a black box testing technique.

Fuzz testing originated as a class project at the University of Wisconsin in 1988<sup>[3]( https://github.com/Krithika-Balan2290/Software-Testing-Techniques/blob/master/Docs/References.md)</sup>. The project required the development of a system called the “Fuzz Generator” which would generate a random stream of characters. This fuzz generator would then be used to attack UNIX utilities with the goal of breaking them. The test was repeated in 1995 with the goal of expanding the target to GUI based tools, network Protocols and Systems API’s.

Fuzz testing is a cheaper testing technique to build and so, it is more often used in software projects which have a budget to develop testing tools. But, this method cannot be used as a substitute for traditional testing methods. If a system passes fuzz testing, it only means that the system is able to handle random inputs correctly. It does not say anything about the correct behavior of the system. Fuzz testing helps in only finding certain specific types f bugs in the system, such as memory leaks or to find the differences between two versions of the same program.

There are two types of programs which generate the fuzzing inputs. One is the mutation based fuzzer which modifies the existing data to create new input data and the other is the generation based fuzzer which generates new data based on existing data models<sup>[4]( https://github.com/Krithika-Balan2290/Software-Testing-Techniques/blob/master/Docs/References.md)</sup>. A common mutation based technique is to take existing inuts and flip some of the bits in the input at random or rearranging the input. This technique is more useful if the format that is used in the input is incorporated into the fuzzer.

The format specification of the input can be built into the fuzzer and a generation based fuzzer could generate input data modeled on these specifications and then making small modifications to the data in order to make it random and invalid. This is a smart fuzzing technique and it can be used to test for syntax and robustness of the system. The input created can be valid or invalid or partly valid in order to test different conditions.

Fuzz Testing helps to find the more severe bugs in the software system such as system vulnerabilities. Since the test input is random, it includes inputs that humans don’t usually think of. So, it helps to cover a wider range of tests on the system. On the other hand, the fuzzing technique generally takes a long time to find the more sever bugs. Since it generates tests at random, it may have poor code coverage and so severe bugs may be missed in different parts of the system. 

[Prev Page](https://github.com/Krithika-Balan2290/Software-Testing-Techniques/blob/master/Docs/blackbox.md) | [Next Page](https://github.com/Krithika-Balan2290/Software-Testing-Techniques/blob/master/Docs/LSU.md)
 
 [Back to contents](https://github.com/Krithika-Balan2290/Software-Testing-Techniques/blob/master/Index.md)
